# Econometrics_project

This article is devoted to analyze real estate market of Kazakhstan on example of Almaty city. The main aim of conducting econometric analysis of residential properties was identifying factors that affect the formation of real estate prices. The object of the research was both primary and secondary housing market of Almaty city with 1-15 number of rooms for the last year. This geographical choice was determined by the fact that Almaty is the biggest city in Kazakhstan and, moreover, the number of ads in this city significantly exceeded the number of ads in any other city of Kazakhstan. In total, there were 29299 apartments to look at; the study analyses such price- influencing factors as area, number of rooms, number of floors in the building, district and condition. We had regressed price on housing factors; however, we realized that the OLS model is inefficient due to the presence of heteroscedasticity. Thus, we took measures against this issue; we constructed semi-log and log-log models and used Goldfeld-Quant test to see whether heteroscedasticity would still be present – it was not. 

Then, we used Weighted Least Squares as another measure, and it yielded efficient results. Thus, we opted for log-log and WLS models as those which eliminate heteroscedasticity. We then summarized and interpreted them, finding that Nauryzbay district is the cheapest one, whereas Medeu district is the most expensive one. Then, we constructed an optimization problem to find the floor which maximizes apartment price; it was found to be the 6th floor. Despite our efforts into minimizing potential causes of bias, there still are some limitations to the framework of this research, such as the fact that we only looked at supply prices and have no information on the actual prices for which apartments were sold upon negotiation. 

The research could be potentially extended to all of Kazakhstan, given that patterns would likely differ in different cities; additionally, it could be extended to analyzing more price- affecting factors. WLS model eliminated heteroscedasticity but may possibly give illogical results; thus, further research is needed.

[Проект в Jupyter Notebook](https://github.com/avodintsov/Econometrics_project/blob/main/Migration%20in%20Kazakhstan.ipynb)
